Table of Contents {#table-of-contents .TOCHeading}
=================

### Overview Identify and link the Same Person

Complying with privacy and information security laws is increasingly
becoming more challenging for individuals and organizations. Events such
as the 2017 Equifax data breach of 143 million individual identities is
becoming a more common occurrence. Even more concerning, in 2017, Yahoo
revised its 2013 500 million Yahoo user identity breach to 3 billion
identities being stolen. The scale of these security breaches impact on
an organization's perceived business value and the direct negative
financial implications from lax regulatory adherence should not be
underestimated.[^1] According to
[wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Personally_identifiable_information),
"personally identifiable information(PII) or sensitive personal
information as used in information security and privacy laws...has four
common variants based on personal \| personally, and identifiable \|
identifying" information. Protecting personal information is governed
according to privacy principles in most OECD countries. In Europe, data
protection laws are mainly focused on General Data Protection
Regulation(GDPR). Depending on jurisdiction and differing regulatory
pressures, an organizations abilities to comply with protecting PII
starts with managing data assets effectively and promoting a culture
that values privacy and digital policies. One of the most challenging
aspects of complying with regulatory or managing reputational risks
associated with keeping PII information secure is an organization's
ability to maintain information governance standards that effectively
manages personal identifiable information.[^2] One such approach to
managing PII data more effectively is for organizations to identify and
link persons across all its data assets into one consolidated entity
resolution index. Basic information governance will result from
combining datasets and performing large aggregate analyses using
powerful new ways to improve service across large populations.
Critically important in this task is the deduplication of identities
across multiple data sets that were rarely designed to work together.
Inconsistent data entry, typographical errors, and real world identity
changes pose significant challenges to this process.

Besides adhering to PII standards, the ability to correlate personal
identities from disparate data sources allows approximate joins to occur
giving increased value to the joined datasets. One could consider the
Department of Homeland Security attempt at joining passenger data with
homeland security no-fly lists and the and other potential terrorism
security measures an extreme in linking related personal identities.

**References**

[^1]: Armerding, Taylor. "The 16 Biggest Data Breaches of the 21st
    Century." CSO Online. CSO, 11 Oct. 2017. Web. 21 Jan. 2018.

[^2]: "Personally Identifiable Information." Wikipedia. Wikimedia
    Foundation, 19 Jan. 2018. Web. 21 Jan. 2018.
